# Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments of Knowledge

How can we prove we have sensitive knowledge without
revealing the sensitive knowledge itself? How can we
do it without a challenge-response interaction?
The zk-SNARK does this.

You can use zk-SNARKs for a lot of cool things like
private cryptocurrency transactions, L2 rollups,
anonymous voting systems and proving your identity
without revealing your information to the public.

## The Pieces of zk-SNARK

**zk**: Zero-Knowledge - Proving we have info without revealing it
**S**: Succinct - proofs are small and fast to verify
**N**: Non-Interactive - proof can be verified without back and forth communication
**ARK**: Argument of Knowledge - proof can only be generated by party who knows
private input.

### ZKPs

zk-SNARK is an evolution of zero-knowledge proofs, which
are the ability to prove you know something without
revealing what that something is. Every ZKP must
satisfy three conditions:

* Completeness: If the proof is true, an honest prover
can always convice the verifier.
* Soundness: If the proof is false, a dishonest prover
can never convince the verifier.
* Zero-Knowledge: No information is revealed to any party
beyond the validity of the statement being proven.

### Phases

zk-SNARKS have three phases:

1. Setup: A Proving Key and Verification Key are generated
using a Trusted Setup that is unique to the computation being
proven.
2. Prove: The Prover uses the Proving Key and their private
inputs to create a proof.
3. Verify: Anyone can use the Verification Key to prove the
inputs are valid.

### Components

zk-SNARKS have 4 main components:

1. Circuit: A mathematical representation of the computation
being proven. This translates the problem into a format that
can be processed cryptographically.
2. Witness: The private inputs that only the prover knows.
3. Public Inputs: Inputs available to both the prover and verifier.
4. Proof: The cryptographic data that validates the entire computation.

[zk-SNARK Paper](https://www.di.ens.fr/~nitulesc/files/Survey-SNARKs.pdf)

## Zero Knowledge More Generally

[Berkeley ZKP MOOC](https://rdi.berkeley.edu/zk-learning/)

All ZKPs have two main parties: the Verifier (*V*) and the Prover (*P*).
*P* interacts with *V* _convincing_ them that a proposition is true.
If the proposition is true, any *V\** might as well have generated the
interaction on their own.

ZKPs prove that you *could* prove something if you felt like it.
Here is a classic example of an interactive ZKP:

* The Prover can see color, the Verifier cannot. The Verifier
has two colored balls, each a different color. *V* cannot distinguish
that these balls are a different color but the *P*rover claims they
can.
* In order to prove this, the *V*erifier flips a coin. If heads, the
verifier swaps the position of the two balls without the *P*rover
seeing. If tails, there is no change, but still the *P*rover is
unaware.
* After flipping, the *V*erifier reveals the balls to the *P*rover,
who is asked if the balls have been swapped or not. Since the
*P*rover can see color, they will be able to correctly
answer this question every time.
* After 1 attempt, the *V*erifier can assume the *P*rover simply
got lucky. However, after repeating this process *k* times it
becames mathematically **very** unlikely the *P*rover is lying.

What makes the proof zero-knowledge is that the Verifier can
only compute the same things after the interaction that they
could have generated before the interaction.

## The Simulation Paradigm

*V*'s view gives them nothing new. If they could have simulated
their own proof, the simulated and real views should be
computationally indistinguishable. Someone simulating views
and comparing them to real ones can *at best* get it down to
50/50 in determining which one is real and which one is
simulated.

## Zero Knowledge Defined

An Interactive Protocol (*P*,*V*) is zero knowledge for a
language *L* if for every **PPT** there exists a simulator
such that for every *x* in *L*, the following two
probability distributions are **poly-time** indistiguishable:

1. *view*~V~(*P*,*V*)\[*x*\]
2. *Sim*(*x*,1^*λ*^)

The first is the real view and the second is the simulator.
We raise 1 to the power of λ in distribution 2 as a
way to ensure the simulation is run enough times.

### Flavors of ZKP

There are multiple flavors of Zero Knowledge:

* Computationally Indistiguishable (CZK)
* Perfectly Identical (PZK)
* Statistically Close (SZK)

PZK is a special case where the verifier's view can be
efficiently simulated exactly.
