-----
description: Sliver or Bust
-----
# C2 Frameworks
I only really have experience with Sliver. Here's what I know:

## Setup
+ You can `curl https://sliver.sh/install|sudo bash` or install latest release from github.
+ Make sure you have `build-essential mingw-w64 binutils-mingw-w64 g++-mingw-w64` so you can cross compile bins. 
Once installed, run `sliver-server unpack --force` to get all assets. It will dump into `./.sliver`

### New Operator
`sliver-server operator --name <name> --lhost localhost --save /folder`
Where name is obvious, lhost is the address the operator should be connecting from and save is the save location for the creds.
Generally you will want to save your operators to `~/.sliver-client/configs/` because that's where the sliver-server is going to check when an auth attempt is made.

## Planting
Sliver does sessions (persistent) and beacons (intermittent). Sessions are faster but beacons are stealthier. OOB implants will never hit, always need to obfuscate. Read sliver `generate` command helpfile for options on creating.
You will need to create a listener to catch the beacon. Make sure the protocol and port of the listener matches the beacon. 
`generate` makes sessions, `generate beacon` makes beacons.

### Session Management
+ `sessions` to show a session
+ `use` to enter a session
+ `background` to bg a session
+ `session -k` to kill a session

### Beacon Management
+ `beacons` to show beacons
+ `use` to queue commands for a beacon
+ `tasks` shows becaon queued and completed tasks
Backgrounding and killing beacons works the same way as sessions.

### Profiles
`profiles new`, `profiles new beacon` and `profiles generate` will let you configure and make
preconfigured beacons/sessions to simplify the process.

You can specify multiple connection strings when you cook a beacon or session just use a comma to separate them. 

Try to increase the size of the poll files to have a decent number of entries so the traffic generated by HTTP C2 Beacons is significantly more random. 

## Operating
To catch a beacon over DNS you need to have your C2 Server set as the authoritative NS for the domain you're directing the beacon to. 
You also have to specify the domain when you start the listener with `dns  -d <domain>.` note the `.` appended at the end of the domain.

DNS beacons are limited to packet sizes of 254 bytes. Do not upload or download large files over this connection or you will be sitting aroud for days.
